today more than half of all people in
the world live in an urban area by
mid-century this will increase to 70%
but as recently as a hundred years ago
only two out of ten people lived in a
city and before that it was even less
how have we reached such a high degree
of urbanization and what does it mean
for our future in the earliest days of
human history humans were
hunter-gatherers often moving from place
to place in search of food but about
10,000 years ago our ancestors began to
learn the secrets of selective breeding
and early agricultural techniques for
the first time people could raise food
rather than search for it and this led
to the development of semi-permanent
villages for the first time in history
why only semi-permanent you might ask
well at first the villages still had to
relocate every few years as the soil
became depleted it was only with the
advent of techniques like irrigation and
soil tilling about 5,000 years ago the
people could rely on a steady and
long-term supply of food making
permanent settlements possible and with
the food surpluses that these techniques
produced it was no longer necessary for
everyone to farm this allowed the
development of other specialized trades
and by extension cities with cities now
producing surplus food as well as tools
crafts and other goods there was now the
possibility of Commerce and interaction
over longer distances and his trade
flourished
so did technologies that facilitated it
like carts ships roads and ports of
course these things required even more
labor to build and maintain so more
people were drawn from the countryside
to the cities as more jobs and
opportunities became available if you
think modern cities are overcrowded you
may be surprised to learn that some
cities in 2000 BC had population
densities nearly twice as high as that
of Shanghai or Calcutta one reason for
this was that transportation was not
widely available so everything had to be
within walking distance
including the few sources of clean water
that existed then and the land area of
the city was further restricted by the
need for walls to defend against attacks
the Roman Empire was able to develop
infrastructure to overcome these
limitations but other than that modern
cities as we know them didn't really get
their start until the Industrial
Revolution when new technology deployed
on a mass scale allowed cities to expand
and integrate further establishing
police fire and sanitation departments
as well as road networks and later
electricity distribution so what is the
future of cities global population
is currently more than seven billion and
is predicted to top out around 10
billion most of this growth will occur
in the urban areas of the world's
poorest countries so how will cities
need to change to accommodate this
growth first the world will need to seek
ways to provide adequate food sanitation
and education for all people second
growth will need to happen in a way that
does not damage the land that provides
us with the goods and services that
support the human population food
production might move to vertical farms
and skyscrapers rooftop gardens or
vacant lots and city centers while power
will increasingly come from multiple
sources of renewable energy instead of
single-family homes more residences will
be built vertically we may see buildings
that contain everything that people need
for their daily life as well as smaller
self-sufficient cities focused on local
and sustainable production the future of
cities is diverse malleable and creative
no longer built around a single industry
but reflecting an increasingly connected
and global world
Oh